README.md, before:

# Paper Betting Tracker

This project tracks sports bets and results using Python scripts and CSV files. It fetches odds from The-Odds-API, analyzes profitable bets using several strategies, and logs results for further analysis. Currently, only h2h bets are considered, and only North Carolina books are "placed" on. All sports leagues provided by The-Odds-API are considered for betting. This project is inspired by the following paper published by Kaunitz, Zhong, and Kreiner: https://arxiv.org/vc/arxiv/papers/1710/1710.02824v1.pdf.

## Results
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_average_with_modified_zscore_constraint.png)
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_pinnacle.png)
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_average.png)
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_average_with_zscore_constraint.png)
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_random_strategy.png)

## Betting Strategies
- Fair average odds: Calculates the vig-free (true) probability for an outcome from every bookmaker, then averages these probabilities to determine a consensus fair payout. Identifies betting opportunities where the best available odds offer higher payouts than this fair average suggests the outcome is worth.
- Z-score: Combines the fair average approach with statistical outlier detection. First filters for bets that exceed the fair average threshold, then applies an additional constraint requiring the best odds to be a certain distance away from the average to be considered profitable. This dual-filtering approach targets bets that are both fundamentally undervalued and anomalously priced.
- Modified Z-score: Uses the same dual-constraint approach as the Z-score strategy but employs a more robust statistical method. Instead of using mean and standard deviation (which can be skewed by extreme values), it uses median and median absolute deviation to identify outliers.
- Pinnacle edge: Compares available odds against Pinnacle Sportsbook's vig-free probabilities rather than a consensus average. Pinnacle is widely considered a "sharp" bookmaker with efficient pricing, so this strategy assumes Pinnacle's odds represent true market value and looks for opportunities where other bookmakers offer significantly better payouts.
- Random: Control strategy that randomly selects a small number of outcomes (0-5) and places bets on their best available odds, regardless of any mathematical analysis. This serves as a baseline to measure whether the analytical strategies actually outperform chance-based betting over time.

## Data Files Types
- *_bets.csv: A minimal file with only essential information for each bet placed.
- *_full.csv: A file with all bookmakers and odds that were available, not just the odds of the bookmaker placed.

## Usage
1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
2. Fetch odds and analyze bets:
   ```bash
   python3 -m codebase.find_bets.find_bets
   ```
3. Update results:
   ```bash
   python3 -m codebase.results_appending.results
   ```

4. View strategy profit/ROI:
   ```bash
   python3 -m codebase.analysis.roi
   ```

## Automation
- GitHub Actions workflows automatically runs bet finding script 7 times an hour and results updating script 1 time every 6 hours.
- Updated CSVs are committed to the repository.

## Author
- Andrew Smith

Commit message:

Update README with data collection start date
Added a note about the start date for data collection.

README.md, after:

# Paper Betting Tracker

This project tracks sports bets and results using Python scripts and CSV files. It fetches odds from The-Odds-API, analyzes profitable bets using several strategies, and logs results for further analysis. Currently, only h2h bets are considered, and only North Carolina books are "placed" on. All sports leagues provided by The-Odds-API are considered for betting. Data collection for the below results began October 11th, 2025. This project is inspired by the following paper published by Kaunitz, Zhong, and Kreiner: https://arxiv.org/vc/arxiv/papers/1710/1710.02824v1.pdf.

## Results
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_average_with_modified_zscore_constraint.png)
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_pinnacle.png)
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_average.png)
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_average_with_zscore_constraint.png)
![Chart](codebase/analysis/profit_over_time_random_strategy.png)

## Betting Strategies
- Fair average odds: Calculates the vig-free (true) probability for an outcome from every bookmaker, then averages these probabilities to determine a consensus fair payout. Identifies betting opportunities where the best available odds offer higher payouts than this fair average suggests the outcome is worth.
- Z-score: Combines the fair average approach with statistical outlier detection. First filters for bets that exceed the fair average threshold, then applies an additional constraint requiring the best odds to be a certain distance away from the average to be considered profitable. This dual-filtering approach targets bets that are both fundamentally undervalued and anomalously priced.
- Modified Z-score: Uses the same dual-constraint approach as the Z-score strategy but employs a more robust statistical method. Instead of using mean and standard deviation (which can be skewed by extreme values), it uses median and median absolute deviation to identify outliers.
- Pinnacle edge: Compares available odds against Pinnacle Sportsbook's vig-free probabilities rather than a consensus average. Pinnacle is widely considered a "sharp" bookmaker with efficient pricing, so this strategy assumes Pinnacle's odds represent true market value and looks for opportunities where other bookmakers offer significantly better payouts.
- Random: Control strategy that randomly selects a small number of outcomes (0-5) and places bets on their best available odds, regardless of any mathematical analysis. This serves as a baseline to measure whether the analytical strategies actually outperform chance-based betting over time.

## Data Files Types
- *_bets.csv: A minimal file with only essential information for each bet placed.
- *_full.csv: A file with all bookmakers and odds that were available, not just the odds of the bookmaker placed.

## Usage
1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
2. Fetch odds and analyze bets:
   ```bash
   python3 -m codebase.find_bets.find_bets
   ```
3. Update results:
   ```bash
   python3 -m codebase.results_appending.results
   ```

4. View strategy profit/ROI:
   ```bash
   python3 -m codebase.analysis.roi
   ```

## Automation
- GitHub Actions workflows automatically runs bet finding script 7 times an hour and results updating script 1 time every 6 hours.
- Updated CSVs are committed to the repository.

## Author
- Andrew Smith
